---
layout: post
title: blogging with Jekyll
date:   2015-10-26
categories: Jekyll Code
---

In this post, we will take a brief look at how to work with Jekyll. We assume that Jekyll has been successfully installed and is working fine.

# Jekyll Init

## Setting up a new Jekyll site (on GitHub).

1. create a new repository on Github with the following name: `<GitHub User>.github.io`
1. clone that repository to a local dev folder (`myJekyllRepo` in this example)
1. create a new Jekyll site in the same local dev folder
1. in the dev folder, create a `_drafts` folder
1. add all files to git in an initial commit

```
$ git clone https://github.com/<GitHub User>/<GitHub User>.github.io.git myJekyllRepo
$ jekyll new myJekyllRepo
$ cd myJekyllRepo
$ mkdir _drafts
$ git add --all
$ git commit -m "initial commit for myJekyllRepo"
$ git push
```

## Customizing the new Jekyll site.

1. to come
1. to come
1. ...

# Jekyll Flow

## From a rough idea to a published blog post.

1. Think of a **title** (e.g., *Jekyll Flow*) for your new post.
1. In your `_drafts` folder, **create** a new empty **`<title>.md` file** (e.g., `jekyll-flow.md`)

   `
$ touch title.md
   `

1. Add minimal **Front Matter**

   ``` YAML
---
layout: <document type>
title: <title>
date:   <date>
categories: <categories>
tags: <tags>
---
   ```

   **where**
   - `<document type>` is  `post` or `page` (or others, depending on the used layout)
   - `<title>` is your title
   - `<date>` is the date the post should be filed under (if omitted, date will be taken from post name, see step 7. below)
   - `<categories>` is one or more (space seperated) categories the post should be filed under (note: the categories are hierarchical. `cat1 cat2` means the post will be filed under `/cat1/cat2/...`)
   - `<tags>` is one or more tags that should be associated with the post


1. **Start local Jekyll Server** with `--draft` option. 

   `
$ bundle exec jekyll serve --draft
   `

1. **Open newly created post** in browser at `127.0.0.1:4000`.

1. **Edit-Review Cycle**
   a) edit the contents of your post
   b) save post (it will automatically be regenerated by Jekyll)
   c) hit F5 on browser to refresh page
   d) review post
   e) while not finished and satisfied, continue with step 6.a)

1. Once satisfied and ready to publish, move your post from the `_drafts` to the `_posts` folder, and prepend the date to the filename (in `YYYY-MM-DD-title.md` format).

   `
$ mv _drafts/jekyll-flow.md _posts/2015-10-26-jekyll-flow.md
   `
1. **Start local Jekyll Server** without `--draft` option, and verify that the post is generated and filed as expected.

   `
$ bundle exec jekyll serve
   `
1.





---

**N.B.** The best wishes to my father. It's his birthday today! :)